Previously on Sleepy Hollow...
Malcolm Dreyfuss.
Every supernatural encounter we've had
leads back to Dreyfuss.
You'd sold your soul to the
devil. And now you're collecting
powerful artifacts to
perpetrate more evil.
Innocent lives be damned.
You say you saw his man
procuring an item.
I'll see you in the morning.
The Philosopher's Stone.
You were going to cheat out of your deal
by cheating death itself.
If I never die, I never
have to lose my soul.
George Washington hid the
Philosopher's Stone pieces
on the strongest ley line intersection.
That's where we'll find the last piece.
Where is it?
Sleepy Hollow.
Hardtack, peppered jerky,
a myriad nuts, seeds,
dried fruit and beverages.
Provisions amassed here
would sustain a year-long
expedition into the wild.
We're only 45 from
the Sleepy Hollow exit.
Chips will do the trick.
Chips.
In my day, a road trip required
more than simply a credit card.
You needed the skill to hunt game,
set a snare, skin, gut
and prepare a carcass,
build a smokehouse, procure
salt, vinegar, chicory.
That is how you make a Slim Jim.
Check your raccoon tail
at the door, Daniel Boone.
There is no amount of colonial
know-how that could have created
the wonder that is...
the Blue Frost Razzle
dazzleberry bucket o' slush.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
I believe this is what is
known as a "brain freeze."
Please, would you...
Molly would kill me
if she saw me drinking
that high fructose corn
syrup delivery device.
But with Dreyfuss about to assemble
the Philosopher's Stone,
there's a case to be made
for the simple pleasures.
Dreyfuss may be a step away,
but we are a step ahead.
If we can procure the final
piece of the Talisman first,
we'll thwart his plan.
Can this thing really make him immortal?
Its transmutative power is unmatched.
It has but one limitation:
It cannot create something from nothing.
So if Dreyfuss seeks eternal life,
the Stone must draw power
from the life force
of other human beings.
And the price of immortality
would be thousands of innocent lives.
Jobe!
Where the hell are you?
I call upon thee, Prince of Darkness.
By the terms of our blood contract,
I demand that you guide me
to the vassal you bestowed.
Jobe!
Thank you, Malcolm.
That was...
unpleasant.
Damn it, Jobe.
The terms of my
contract were very clear.
You were to remain at
my side for the duration.
I apologize for the dereliction of duty.
I was caught off guard.
That will not happen again.
And the Everliving Rock?
It's in my possession.
All that remains is the
final Talisman piece,
one that I... I cannot
find without your help.
I'm on the case, Malcolm.
Good.
Then let's get out of
here. It's hotter than hell.
An assumption that I plan
on never getting the chance
to confirm after today.
Coming back here must
be complicated for you.
To say the least.
I lost much in Sleepy Hollow.
The Lieutenant...
my wife...
my son.
But for all the sorrow I experienced,
there was also unrivalled
friendship, camaraderie
and, of course, my introduction
to this infinitely curious modern world.
This is where you first learned
you were a Witness, right?
Correct.
General Washington left
a Bible that described
the responsibility Abbie Mills
and I were to bear together.
Wait, Washington knew you were
a Witness and didn't tell you?
It was a time of war.
I have no doubt my commanding officer
had very good reason
to keep me in the dark.
You're a good soldier.
It's kind of...
It's nice here.
You sound disappointed.
All the supernatural action
that took place over the
years in this zip code,
I was kind of expecting
more of a Stephen King vibe.
Kind of looks like the
town where I grew up.
And that place never looked
better than in the tail lights.
Crane and Diana will be here any minute.
We should get a move on.
All appearances aside,
this place is a minefield
of supernatural horror
waiting to rear its head when
you least expect it, so...
keep your guard up.
Welcome to Sleepy Hollow.
Where the magic happens.
Literally.
And if all goes to plan,
this should help us locate
where the last Talisman
piece was hidden.
We are thankful you were able to procure
this Judas Scepter at such
short notice, Miss Jenny.
It looks like a tuning fork gone wrong.
It's basically a dowsing rod,
but drawn to magic instead of water.
The more powerful the magic,
the stronger you feel the pull.
Tap,
close your eyes.
Got something.
The signal's... strong,
but it's erratic.
- Okay.
- Whoa.
Feels like it's... close,
but it's...
It's yanking me all over the place.
Are you sure you're using it right?
It didn't come with instructions.
I think I just lost the signal.
Is it possible there's
some sort of interference?
I mean, curio shops aside,
isn't this town sort of a
hotbed for supernatural activity?
It was a map of the
powerful ley lines converging
on Sleepy Hollow that
revealed the whereabouts
of the Talisman to us.
Perhaps their considerable energy
is interfering with
the Scepter's reception.
If we cross-reference
our ley line chart
with a topographical map,
I might be able to isolate
the area of interference
and then correct for it.
Good. I have many, many
detailed maps in my Archives.
Follow me.
As Dorothy Gale said with such alacrity,
"There is no place like home."
You said you have some maps for me?
Yes, indeed. This way, Miss Alex.
While you two get busy
with the topography,
I'll, take a look around for
info on ley line interference.
Very good.
So this is Crane's man cave.
Yeah. What can I say?
Dude loves his books.
The library.
Lab.
There's a secret entrance
behind that grating
that leads down to the tunnel system.
What secret base is
complete without one?
Your desk?
My sister used to post up here.
Loved her coffee.
From the way Crane
talks about her, she...
She was something special.
They had something special.
We all did.
I'm sorry, do you...
do you need a minute?
No, I'm fine.
There's lots of ghosts in this
place, but all ones I adore.
Capital work!
Here we are.
- There.
- I think I can whip up a Faraday cage
that'll filter out ley line energy
and allow the Scepter a clear signal.
I just need a few things:
Copper wire, a 4.5 volt battery,
and then the motherboard from a TRS-80.
I've got a storage space near here
that has all that gack
and more... I'll take you.
Very good. If you
modify the Judas Scepter,
Agent Thomas and I
shall continue to search
for information on the
Philosopher's Stone.
This is the part of the
job I've been missing.
Yeah, poison ivy,
mosquitoes... got to love it.
Come on, you live
for this as much as I do.
The past month is the first
time I've felt that what we do
makes a real difference.
So insert snide comment here.
No, dude. I second
the emotion, actually.
It's one thing to want to help.
It's another to be equipped for it.
Being naive will get you
hurt or killed or worse.
And in this line of
work, there are fates
that make death pale in comparison.
Okay, so there's a learning curve.
I mean, come on.
You weren't born a Furiosa-style,
combat-boot-wearing,
chip-shouldering badass, were you?
Okay, maybe you were.
I'm just saying you need to be realistic
about the dangers we face.
Agent Thomas,
I have something you might like to see.
These letters were penned
by General Washington.
I've read them all before, of course...
but I missed something...
a cipher that has
revealed new information.
These were written in 1781,
mere days before I first
met the Horseman of Death.
That's when...
When I... died.
These could shed new
light on those events.
And crucial information
about the Philosopher's Stone.
Indeed. This particular missive
contains hidden information
on a clandestine meeting
between Washington
and Benjamin Banneker.
Mr. Banneker,
you've found it, haven't you?
Yes. After years of searching,
my survey team has located
the Philosopher's Stone.
You see the problem at hand, General...
the Stone lies on land
that will soon be contested
in a battle with the Crown.
I've come for permission
to enact the Division
while we still have time.
Of course. We cannot let the
Stone fall into enemy hands.
And the Division will ensure this.
I understand how it is
meant to work, Mr. Banneker.
Your team of engineers
will divide the Stone
into four pieces, three
to be entrusted in secret
to a brave compatriot.
Yes. And the last and final to myself.
Each will be hidden,
safeguarded through the ages.
Whatever the outcome of this war,
or the future path of this nation,
the Division will endure.
I have no doubt, and
this plan will be enacted.
But not today.
Before we divide the Stone,
we must first make use of it.
General, we both know the
cost of using the Stone
is measured in human lives.
This is a decision I
make with a heavy heart.
But using the Stone may be
the only thing that allows
our nation to survive its infancy.
And there the missive ends.
Now, we know Washington
eventually followed.
Banneker's plan for the Division...
And that Dreyfuss has
the same information.
Indeed, but with this new thread,
that Washington
intended to use the Stone
before it was divided...
if we can find the rest
of the correspondence,
we may learn to what end.
Okay, we'll find it after
we find the last piece.
Right now, we have to
hope that Alex can block
the ley line interference
so we can find the Talisman
and nip Dreyfuss' plan in the bud.
Very well.
Banneker's legacy, that
the Division endure,
now rests on our shoulders.
This is where I lost the signal.
Okay. So, do like you did before,
just a little bit gentler.
There we go.
Nice work, Alex.
It's taking us towards the graveyard.
Take cover!
Go! Go! Go!
Who is shooting those at us?
I don't know. Whoa.
We must be right on top
of the Talisman piece.
I'm guessing something
doesn't want us to get it.
We need a distraction
so I can get eyes on it.
Here, take this, and
hold it out of cover.
- You got it?
- Yeah.
Let it go. Let it go!
Damn, it's fast.
What'd you see?
Some kind of ancient archer.
The Talisman must be right
below us in this crypt.
But we can't get down there
with that thing taking potshots at us.
We must have woke it by
poking around with the Scepter.
If it's some kind of guardian,
it won't follow us if we retreat.
If we all run in separate directions,
we might confuse it long
enough to get to safety.
Or end up with arrows in our backs.
Hey, you said you liked
being in the field.
- Right. Then let's do this!
- Yeah?
- You good?
- Good.
Go!
I only caught a glimpse
of it but the Jackal mask
and bronze-tipped arrows
were clearly Egyptian.
Fitting, if this piece of the Talisman
was hidden by Benjamin Banneker.
It sounds territorial, like
a supernatural guard dog.
You're right, it was like we woke it
searching for the Talisman.
It didn't pursue us.
Once we were out of
range, it just let us go.
Wait.
Yes, here.
You faced "a guardian demon"
"of Egyptian descent... a creature used
"by ancient pharaohs
to keep the treasures
"they buried with
them safe from plunder.
A mythical creature
known as the Sphinx."
- Wait.
Even I know that a Sphinx
is a half-human, half-animal
that riddles you with
brain teasers, not arrows.
Not necessarily.
Egyptians tended to anthropomorphize
with their hieroglyphics.
A four-legged Sphinx
statue may have been
a warning that a two-legged
demon with a bow lies below.
I don't care how many legs it has.
How do we put this thing down
so we can get into that crypt?
No, you were right. Generally speaking,
one must solve a riddle in
order to put this creature down.
Maybe we don't need to defeat the Sphinx
to get what we need.
All right, you... now, you said
these lead to a tunnel system?
Like, similar to the
one back home in D.C.?
Yes, Master Wells.
And if this piece of the
Talisman resides in a crypt
beneath the street,
perhaps we can access it from below.
Are you kidding?
We barely escaped that
Sphinx above ground.
We'd be sitting ducks in those tunnels.
Not if we provide a
distraction from above.
We can draw it out again,
keep it occupied long enough
for Crane and Diana
to get into the crypt.
Target practice for a Sphinx.
Still excited about field work?
So Banneker took your advice
and joined the colonial army.
Became one of General
Washington's closest advisors.
However, I was not aware that
this role extended to matters
of supernatural import.
My wife, Katrina... Franklin, Jefferson,
and now Banneker...
all knew the truth of
my role as a Witness.
All were ordered to
keep that truth a secret.
It can't feel good knowing
that such crucial
information was kept from you.
No, it most assuredly does not.
But the past is the past.
There's no point in
wringing one's hands.
And we shall adopt an
altogether different approach
with young Molly.
She will never have to bear the brunt
of a soldier's duty in this matter.
Pro move, Crane.
I ask if it bothers you,
you just change the subject.
I...
Right.
The war against evil is far from over.
There are many more enemies to face,
many more battles to be fought.
This is a road we should not
start down until Miss Jenny
and the others are securely in position
and ready to distract the Sphinx.
Hey, topside, what's your 20?
In position. I'll signal
when I have contact.
Hey, hold up.
I will need you to
hang back by the truck.
So is this some of sort
of pattern with you?
'Cause you went off solo to
Despair's cave to rescue Crane,
and then again to infiltrate
Dreyfuss' building.
Yeah. I'm just quicker
and more mobile on my own.
The plan, your plan, was
to split the demon's focus.
It's not about the plan, she
just doesn't want to babysit.
- We can handle ourselves.
- Really?
'Cause I've had years of experience
dealing with situations like this.
We're not idiots, we get
it. It's a tough game.
People died playing, people
that you really cared about.
But we're not those people. We
have our own reasons for being here,
and we're old enough to
make our own decisions.
I was out of line.
This is my issue, not yours,
and I appreciate you
calling me out on it.
Topside.
Not that I don't love
tunnels, but what's the holdup?
Moving in now. Hold your position.
All right, then...
let's do this.
There he is!
Move!
Bogey sighted.
Here.
As promised,
one Sphinxian riddle.
Can you solve it?
Can I...
Yes, I...
It is a Banneker design.
I'll just need one moment
to translate the cipher.
On your six!
Hey, dogface!
Yo! I got a riddle for you.
What's it gonna be?
Hey, he's weakening.
We must have got the Talisman.
Nice work.
Mission accomplished.
Good job, everyone.
Agent Thomas?
Crane!
Are you all right?
Yes, I'm fine.
Right. I shall guide you through
the Banneker lock mechanism.
It's okay, I think I got it.
Mr. Crane.
Give it here.
Time to go, Witness.
Crane?
Crane!
When the door re-opened,
Crane was just...
gone.
The fact that the last Talisman piece
disappeared along with him
makes a case for the culprit.
Yeah, your friend and
mine, Malcolm Dreyfuss.
No, we were ahead for a minute.
Looks like we just lost our lead.
Hey, not for lack of trying.
You did good.
- Both of you.
- Damn straight.
We're all in this together.
For better or worse.
Right on.
We came into town
to find this Talisman.
If Dreyfuss took it,
and Crane, we could...
Use one to find the other.
Except that we lost the Judas Scepter.
Is there anything else in here
that we can use to track
the Talisman's magic?
I say we go terrestrial.
Dreyfuss has supernatural
allies, but in the end,
he's just a guy.
Dreyfuss Enterprises.
They had a contract to restore the
Lincoln Memorial, right? -
They used it as a smoke screen
to find the first Talisman.
And he also bought the swamplands
around the Dyer sisters' house...
So does Dreyfuss Enterprises
have any similar commercial inroads
in the Sleepy Hollow area?
Three months ago, "a charitable
arm of Dreyfuss Enterprises"
"started a public works
project here in town,
"a commemorative park
located on the site
of a colonial-era battlefield."
Well, that sounds like
a field full of pay dirt.
Hey, hold up.
Dreyfuss isn't gonna be alone out there.
Plus, he's got his
very own personal demon.
We arm up. Go in smart.
All right, then. We got a plan.
Look, let's just hope Crane
can hold out until we get there.
That's right, Mr. Crane.
The Philosopher's Stone is now complete.
Which means you and I, we
really need to have a toast,
don't you think?
Yes.
After two centuries,
this incredible artifact
is finally complete.
Division no longer endures.
Mazel tov.
I'd sooner die than raise my
cups with the likes of you.
Attacking my ego,
that-that's an interesting strategy.
Y-You do realize that virtually
every man of my stature
is by nature necessarily
self-involved, don't you?
I mean, it's not really a flaw,
it's-it's kind of what drives us.
And you do realize this
stone will suck the life
out of every man, woman,
and child in Sleepy Hollow?
Tell me,
what sort of an eternal
life would that be
with that stain on your conscience?
So, innocent people lose their lives
because you're too thick
to read the small print
in your deal with the devil.
I... I had faith
I would find a loophole.
And I did.
And I am more than
grateful to acknowledge
that I owe all of it to you.
That's right.
See, for years I'd spent billions
on-on cryogenics, nanomedicine,
regenerative therapy
and on and on and on.
Then one day, one of
my feelers at the FBI
tells me he got wind of
a 250-year-old man.
I mean, holy sh... ut the front door.
Wowza.
Right?
So you killed Agent Walters.
Pushed me for information.
Why?
I knew nothing of the
Philosopher's Stone.
So...
so are you saying you-you
don't find this stone dais
familiar in any way?
Take a look beneath your feet.
- Yeah, okay.
- You see that shape?
Now imagine blood
flowing down through it.
Mingling on it, if you will.
Didn't you ever wonder
why Washington sent you
to that battlefield to
face the Horseman of Death?
Didn't you wonder how you
were able to cut off his head
so easily back then, but
now, since then, you...
you haven't been able
to harm him at all.
It was the power of
the Philosopher's Stone.
Washington,
he manipulated you.
Used you.
And in the end,
he sacrificed you.
I fought the Horseman of Death
on the Philosopher's Stone.
Yes.
Because your friend and
mentor, George Washington,
he believed, as I happen to believe,
that when the chips come down,
something must be sacrificed
for the greater good.
And by the way,
it might amuse you to know
I found a description
of that fateful night
in Banneker's papers.
And your loyal friend,
he sued your case
with all his heart and soul.
I will not allow this.
It is already done.
And take the chance that Ichabod Crane,
the biblical Witness,
might not survive this battle?
How could you do such a thing?
Because this is war, sir.
And today,
I must risk our most precious asset,
a man I love and trust,
because I have no other choice.
Benjamin!
What good fortune that we should meet.
Is something amiss?
I am tired, Crane.
Before we met,
I was a free man,
beholden to no one.
Now we are both soldiers,
and we must do what we are bade to do.
Whatever mission Washington
has called me here to do,
I will not fail him.
Or you.
Of that I have no doubt, my friend.
Godspeed, Ichabod Crane.
So Washington sent me
to fight the Horseman.
Knowing it would mean my death.
Please.
This is the battlefield.
This is where I died.
Yes.
And fittingly,
this also happens to be where
I will gain eternal life.
Just as soon as
one more guest arrives.
Dreyfuss.
It's not too late to
walk away from this.
Do it.
Walk away with what's
left of your soul intact.
Scalpel.
Scalpel?
I shall anoint this blade.
Mix the blood...
from he who has lived beyond time
with he who is living death.
I ask this great Stone to transform
these two streams...
into the Elixir of Everliving Life.
I got eyes on Dreyfuss.
His demon is with him.
And Crane?
He's in the center
of some kind of altar.
Must be the Philosopher's Stone.
He's not alone.
The Horseman.
Okay. We stick to the plan.
Get in, hit hard, and get out. Clean.
Thank you, Jobe.
Blood of a man from outside his time
who defied the reach of age.
Blood of the Dark Rider of Death...
a true immortal.
As the ceremony begins,
the Stone will require life energy...
the entire town, maybe more.
I've cast an enchantment
that will keep this area
free from the Stone's pull,
an eye in a deadly storm.
Thank you, Jobe.
Every base covered. What
would I do without you?
Now, great Stone,
I call upon your protean power.
Hey, Demon.
You ever seen one of these?
A blessed lantern
brought over from France
in 1778 by Ben Franklin,
made to trap demons.
How handy.
Go! Set the charges.
Hey. Move and I will blow you to hell.
You're welcome to try.
Jobe?
You're not immortal yet.
Jobe!
You are a sight for sore eyes.
Crane!
I thought bullets didn't
work on the Horseman.
The Stone. He's vulnerable on the Stone.
To Hell...
from whence you came.
No!
We good?
- Yeah, we're good.
- Yeah.
Go, go, go! There. Go.
Dreyfuss. Dreyfuss, it's over!
Are they dead?
The Stone drained the life out of them.
Jobe said Dreyfuss is
only safe in his proximity.
Good thing I got him
in my back pocket then.
Do it.
No sign of Dreyfuss.
No sign of the Horseman.
The force of the blast
tore Franklin's lantern
from Miss Jenny's grasp,
but, as always, Lieutenant,
we secured a strong victory.
Fist bump.
And what else is new with the world?
A Hogwarts theme park has opened.
I have ordered a metric ton
of Ravenclaw attire from the Internet.
Mr. Robert Zimmerman
has a fine new studio album.
As for your New York Metropolitans,
this year they have a fierce rivalry
with those grizzly Cubs of Chicago.
Why have I not been
to see you more often?
Well, you always pushed
me to try new things...
so I've moved to Washington, D.C.
I have a new apartment,
new compatriots...
new friends.
Miss Jenny is with me, of course...
as are you...
always.
So, I thought you
might like to know that
whilst I miss you terribly...
I'm not alone.
Until next we meet.
I found a merchant
on Main Street selling these.
A Headless bobblehead.
Wonders never cease.
To absent friends.
To a battle well fought
and a victory well won.
Now drink.
Every single time. How do you do that?
Luck, I imagine, and drink again.
- Gladly.
- Yes, sir.
And this shiny fellow I
shall feed to the jukebox.
You don't want to see what he chooses.
Can't look at your old friend
the same way?
Old?
No, General Washington
made the right decision,
sending me after the
Horseman like he did.
'Twas a sacrifice...
but a sacrifice that may
very well have won the war.
And, of course, if I hadn't
"died," I wouldn't be here today...
wouldn't be a part of this team.
On the house.
You may not have family,
but you are not alone.
I shall drink to that.
That's what we are...
a team.
If you would have told me a month ago
I'd be moonlighting
as a warrior against the supernatural...
mother to the next Witness...
It will require a period of transition.
But we shall ensure Molly's
experience will be far different
to mine and the Lieutenant's.
I'll drink to that.
Well...
Think it's over?
That's the last we'll
hear from Dreyfuss?
I'd like to believe it...
but evil has a manner
of raising its head
in a way we least expect.
But if it should... we
shall face it together.
Team Witness.
Team Witness, indeed.
Yes.
At last.
Subtitle sync and corrections by
awaqeded for www.addic7ed.com.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org